The previous few years have made it very clear that AI as a next massive evolution that is an integral part of all the sectors. Since banking is one among the most data-intensive industries, its transition into AI infrastructure is crucial to surviving the next massive data revolution. BANKING IN INDIA Banking in India has usually been an urban service industry, unlike other countries the penetration of banking in India has been very minimal. With the arrival of simple-to-use monetary transaction mobile applications such as Paytm, Google Pay et al. , there’s a large demand to make and maintain a bank account to run any form of business or to access any form of service regardless of whether one is in an urban or rural setting. DEFINING MOMENT: RISE OF CASHLESS TRANSACTIONS With twin rise of smartphones and efficient payment gateway apps, there are an exponential rise cashless transactions across all the fields. This form of transactions leaves behind a huge quantity of unstructured data. These transactions leave behind a digital path that’s unprotected for any kind of data breach. Given the massive amount of change in client behavior and their monetary activity, most banks in India are not developed enough to handle this quantity of data traffic and keep up with data overload.. Here are few predictions for the approaching year to assist pave the path for better banking experience and efficiency. BETTER CUSTOMER INTERACTION AND SATISFACTION One of the most widespread utilities of AI is to improve client engagement and retention is through automation. By utilizing AI to modify several of the administrative tasks staff do, those employees can then focus more of their time and energy on building relationships with customers and serving to customers with inventive solutions to issues. Automating user FAQ and personalized information feed will not help consumer experience but will also save time for the bank customer executives. FASTER ACCOUNT KYC VERIFICATION KYC verification becomes an automated affair with artificial intelligence functioning at its core. Any attempt at meddling with personal data or employing a fake document to perform KYC will be detected in real-time with the help of a well-devised AI. this will modify the account verification method by cross-checking the given KYC document to the adjacent government records to cross verify the credibleness of the submitted documents. PERSONALISED LOAN SANCTION Banks and financial establishments, with some notable exceptions, are combating bad loans. artificial intelligence can process massive amounts of data that human underwriters would simply not be able to make sense of. artificial intelligence brings the flexibility to capture and exploit patterns that are distinctive to the loan portfolios of various lenders Many loan applicants have different consumer acquisition channels, loan underwriting models and collections processes. These variations lead to loan reimbursement patterns that are individual to them — patterns that ancient underwriting models don’t account for. making it crucial new solution to the ever existing bad loan problem that has been plaguing the banking system. TRANSACTIONS GET MORE FOOL-PROOF On an average economic value of cyber attacks stand at $10.4 million for banking organizations across India as well as direct value, indirect causes like jobs losses and economic science factors, says a report published in 2018. The solution lies in integrating cybersecurity with the product and looking at it as an enabler for digital transformation method. Banking institutes should additionally leverage AI and automation in cybersecurity to attain faster and accurate detection of threats. they’re much more capable than humans when it involves identifying the blind spots, protecting privileged accounts, detecting the cyber threat, responding to the ongoing threat and providing the recovery resolution. AI will create testing and vulnerability-scanning stronger using algorithms to close the gap between thinking something that is in production is unsafe and knowing it’s unsafe. this can be done by looking at each industry category (such as banking or retail) and examining the firewalls, endpoint and alternative security products you are using and how they’re designed in your overall security stack. FRAUD DETECTION WILL BE MORE INTELLIGENT  Earlier, customers had restricted channels available to interact and interact with their banks, which is why even the frauds in the banking system were restricted to loan defaults and theft. The proliferation of technology, however, unfolded varied channels of interactions and transactions — web site, mobile application, and ATM — which has significantly accrued the instances and modes of fraud. this is where artificial intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) come into the picture. These next-gen technologies are ready to assist humans in detecting patterns and taking judgment calls. the need for banking and financial service industry (BFSI) is to tap into the entire potential of AI together with Machine Learning (ML), natural language process (NPL) and Pattern Recognition to not only observe frauds but also catch the fraudsters before any sort of breach had already taken place. SIGNATURE VERIFICATION GETS SMARTER Signature verification gets smarter by bringing artificial intelligence (AI) into the automation method. Signature verification automation software will play a crucial role here in fraud prevention ensuring that each one documents (checks and other signed documents) undergo signature verification. this could be extremely high volumes of documents many 100s of thousands daily if not more